[Outlook] (preview) Add Online Meeting article (#1729)
OfficeDev/office-js-docs-pr: docs/outlook/online-meeting.md

---
title: How to create an Outlook mobile add-in for an online-meeting provider (preview)
description: Discusses how to set up an Outlook mobile add-in for an online-meeting service provider.
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 04/09/2020
localization_priority: Normal
---

# Create an Outlook mobile add-in for an online-meeting provider (preview)

Setting up an online meeting is a core experience for an Outlook user, and it's easy to [create a Teams meeting with Outlook](/microsoftteams/teams-add-in-for-outlook) mobile. However, creating an online meeting in Outlook with a non-Microsoft service can be cumbersome. By implementing this feature, service providers can make the online meeting creation experience seamless for their Outlook add-in users.

> [!NOTE]
> This feature is only supported in [preview](../reference/objectmodel/preview-requirement-set/outlook-requirement-set-preview.md) on Android with an Office 365 subscription.

> ## Scenario: Online-meeting provider

Reviewer: SEO and clarity: Consider removing H2 ## "Scenario: online meeting provider" and moving everything up a heading level so there's no heading 4

            <!-- Configure selected extension point. -->
            <Control xsi:type="MobileButton" id="onlineMeetingFunctionButton">
              <Label resid="residUILessButton0Name" />
              <Icon>
                <bt:Image resid="UiLessIcon" size="25" scale="1" />
                <bt:Image resid="UiLessIcon" size="25" scale="2" />
                <bt:Image resid="UiLessIcon" size="25" scale="3" />
                <bt:Image resid="UiLessIcon" size="32" scale="1" />
                <bt:Image resid="UiLessIcon" size="32" scale="2" />
                <bt:Image resid="UiLessIcon" size="32" scale="2" />
                <bt:Image resid="UiLessIcon" size="48" scale="1" />
                <bt:Image resid="UiLessIcon" size="48" scale="2" />
                <bt:Image resid="UiLessIcon" size="48" scale="3" />
              </Icon>
              <Action xsi:type="ExecuteFunction">
                <FunctionName>insertContosoMeeting</FunctionName>
              </Action>
            </Control>
          </ExtensionPoint>
        </MobileFormFactor>
      </Host>
    </Hosts>
    ...
  </VersionOverrides>
</VersionOverrides>
...
```

> ### Implementation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Include online meeting details in users Outlook appointment
```
"Implementation" doesn't provide much info for the section

In this section, you'll see an outline for how your add-in script can update a user's meeting to include online meeting details.

> The following example shows how you could construct online meeting details. Not shown is how to get the meeting organizer's ID and other details from your service.

Author: @lindalu-MSFT My thinking here was that call that out since we're not even calling a fake service, which would have at least provided calls to get data from the service. Service providers should know (or determine otherwise) how to call into their own service.

    '<br><br>' +
    'Phone Dial-in: +1(123)456-7890' +
    '<br><br>' +
    'Meeting ID: 123 456 789' +
    '<br><br>' +
    'Want to test your video connection?' +
    '<br><br>' +
    '<a href="https://contoso.com/testmeeting" target="_blank">Join test meeting</a>' +
    '<br><br>';
```

The next example shows how you could define a UI-less function named `insertContosoMeeting` referenced in the manifest to update the meeting body with the online meeting details.

```js
var mailboxItem;

// Office is ready.
Office.onReady(function () {
        mailboxItem = Office.context.mailbox.item;
    }
);

function insertContosoMeeting(event) {
    // Get HTML body from the client.
    mailboxItem.body.getAsync("html",
        { asyncContext: event },
        function (getBodyResult) {
            if (getBodyResult.status === Office.AsyncResultStatus.Succeeded) {
                updateBody(getBodyResult.asyncContext, getBodyResult.value);
            } else {
                console.error("Failed to get HTML body.");
                getBodyResult.asyncContext.completed({ allowEvent: false });
            }
        }
    );
}
```

> This sample shows an implementation of the supporting function `updateBody` used in the previous example that appends the online meeting details to the current body of the meeting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows an implementation of the supporting function `updateBody` used in the previous example that appends the online meeting details to the current body of the meeting.
```
For accessibility and consistency.

```js
function updateBody(event, existingBody) {
    // Append new body to the existing body.
    mailboxItem.body.setAsync(existingBody + newBody,
        { asyncContext: event, coercionType: "html" },
        function (setBodyResult) {
            if (setBodyResult.status === Office.AsyncResultStatus.Succeeded) {
                setBodyResult.asyncContext.completed({ allowEvent: true });
            } else {
                console.error("Failed to set HTML body.");
                setBodyResult.asyncContext.completed({ allowEvent: false });
            }
        }
    );
}
```

### Testing and validation

> You can follow the usual guidance to [test and validate your add-in](testing-and-tips.md). After [sideloading](sideload-outlook-add-ins-for-testing.md) in Outlook on the web, Windows, or Mac, you should restart Outlook on your mobile device (Android is the only supported client for now) then verify on a new meeting screen that the Microsoft Teams or Skype toggle has been replaced with your own.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the usual guidance to [test and validate your add-in](testing-and-tips.md). After [sideloading](sideload-outlook-add-ins-for-testing.md) in Outlook on the web, Windows, or Mac, restart Outlook on your Android mobile device (Android is the only supported client for now). Then, on a new meeting screen, verify that the Microsoft Teams or Skype toggle is replaced with your own.
```
LOC: simplify, break compound sentences into two.

> #### Create meeting UI

Reviewer: SEO and clarity: Consider removing H2 ## "Scenario: online meeting provider" and moving everything up a heading level so there's no heading 4

> As a meeting organizer, you should see screens similar to the following when you create a meeting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a meeting organizer, you should see screens similar to the following three images when you create a meeting.
```
Accessibility: for screen readers to describe what's on the page

[![screenshot of create meeting screen on Android - loading Contoso toggle](../images/outlook-android-create-online-meeting-load.png)](../images/outlook-android-create-online-meeting-load-expanded.png#lightbox) [![screenshot of create meeting screen on Android - Contoso toggle off](../images/outlook-android-create-online-meeting-off.png)](../images/outlook-android-create-online-meeting-off-expanded.png#lightbox) [![screenshot of create meeting screen on Android - Contoso toggle on](../images/outlook-android-create-online-meeting-on.png)](../images/outlook-android-create-online-meeting-on-expanded.png#lightbox)

#### Join meeting UI

> As a meeting attendee, you should see a screen similar to the following when you view the meeting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a meeting attendee, you should see a screen similar to the following image when you view the meeting.
```

[![screenshot of join meeting screen on Android](../images/outlook-android-join-online-meeting-view.png)](../images/outlook-android-join-online-meeting-view-expanded.png#lightbox)

## Available APIs

> ***TODO:*** Confirm set of APIs - will need to update ref docs for each of them - point to this article

Reviewer: I assume this is a note to yourself? Triple *** is a horizontal rule in markdown!

Author: @lindalu-MSFT These TODOs are for updates to related docs (e.g. reference) and will be removed before publish. BTW, `***TODO:***` renders like this:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/28541963/79013602-fbfab100-7b1d-11ea-8d7d-ae9e4d98c67c.png)

> e.g. **Note**: This member is not supported in Outlook on iOS or Android. However, there's an exception for online-meeting providers. See *online meeting article* for details.

Reviewer: Consider using:
> [!NOTE]
> Information the user should notice even if skimming.

***TODO:*** Note similar exception in [mobile add-ins support](add-mobile-support.md#compose-mode-and-appointments) article.

The following APIs are available for this feature.

- [Dialog APIs for auth flow](../develop/dialog-api-in-office-add-ins.md)

> - Appointment Organizer APIs

Reviewer: For visual and clarity, consider removing "- Appointment Organize APIs" entirely (or make it the list title in bold) and have all APIs at the same level in the bulleted list.

Author: @lindalu-MSFT This section looks like the following image. Is this inappropriate?
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/28541963/79013762-41b77980-7b1e-11ea-9cc4-613f6518f212.png)

Reviewer: Yes, the level 1 bullets are not the same, one is a link, the other is a heading. This is confusing to screen reader users.

Author: @lindalu-MSFT I've updated this - can you take another look? Thanks.

Reviewer: Looks awesom

  - [Office.context.mailbox.item.body](/javascript/api/outlook/office.appointmentcompose?view=outlook-js-preview#body) ([Body.getAsync](/javascript/api/outlook/office.body?view=outlook-js-preview#getasync-coerciontype--options--callback-), [Body.setAsync](/javascript/api/outlook/office.body?view=outlook-js-preview#setasync-data--options--callback-))
  - [Office.context.mailbox.item.loadCustomPropertiesAsync](/javascript/api/outlook/office.appointmentcompose?view=outlook-js-preview#loadcustompropertiesasync-callback--usercontext-) ([CustomProperties](/javascript/api/outlook/office.customproperties?view=outlook-js-preview))
  - [Office.context.roamingSettings](../reference/objectmodel/preview-requirement-set/office.context.md?view=outlook-js-preview#roamingsettings-roamingsettings) ([RoamingSettings](/javascript/api/outlook/office.roamingsettings?view=outlook-js-preview))

## Restrictions

Several restrictions apply.

- Applicable only to online-meeting service providers.

> - Currently in preview.

Reviewer: Consider adding a clause what "preview" means to the customer.

- At present, Android is the only supported client. Support on iOS is coming soon.

> - Only admin-installed add-ins should show up on the meeting compose screen, replacing the default Teams or Skype option. User-installed add-ins won't activate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Only admin-installed add-ins will appear on the meeting compose screen, replacing the default Teams or Skype option. User-installed add-ins won't activate.
```

> - The add-in icon should be in grayscale using hex code #919191 or its equivalent in other color formats.

Reviewer: Consider providing, other formats here: 
https://convertingcolors.com/hex-color-919191.html
